[AUDIO LOGO]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> "To be, or not to be," that
is what you were expecting,
right?
Well, not here.
There'll be no "methinketh,"
no "wherefore art thou,"
and definitely no men in tights.
This is about the
real Shakespeare,
the man behind the mask.
>> Throughout history, there
have been several theories
surrounding who the
real Shakespeare was.
Some say Sir Francis
Bacon was involved.
Others have unearthed
evidence that
points to Edward de Vere,
the 17th Earl of Oxford.
Records from the Renaissance
during the reign of Queen
Elizabeth reveal that
Edward de Vere's father
died mysteriously.
And the young earl inexplicably
became a ward of court
under strict supervision
of the Queen's closest
advisor, William Cecil.
Also, we learn John Dee
was a master mathematician,
cryptographer, and spy for the
Queen on her Majesty's Secret
Service.
His code number--
007.
We will uncover the elaborate
cryptographic masterpiece
Dee embedded within
Shakespeare's works
that reveals the
poet's true identity.
Connecting the dots on the
cover of his famous Sonnets,
we discover that Dee embedded
12 math constants, five of which
were not even known at
the time of printing
in 1609, along with the
geographical coordinates
of the Great Pyramid of Giza.
Uniting the sonnet numbers
that contain the words "speed,"
"light," and "pyramid," we
discover an equation that
reveals the speed of
light to 99.84% accuracy,
300 years before
Einstein knew it.
The same system also reveals
the average distances from Earth
to sun and moon.
Using Dee's unique
cryptographic method,
we will examine the mysterious
Enochian tables that
were channeled to him by angels
through the medium Edward
Kelley and learn how Dee used
this mysterious grid to create
a system that ensured these
secret messages survived
the Dark Ages to reach us today.
Decrypting additional clues
within Shakespeare's plays,
we will find sequences of
deliberately wrong page numbers
that point to astounding
revelations that are
all part of a divine puzzle.
We'll also learn the foolproof
system Dee and Shakespeare used
to draw attention to
specific dates, which
reveal that the entire Sonnets
sequence mirrors the structure
of the Great Pyramid.
We will add up
all the characters
in Shakespeare's Sonnets
Dedication, his monument,
and gravestone and find
they sum to 624, coinciding
with the fact that the
Enochian tables were channeled
to Dee on June 24, 624
and contain 624 squares,
exposing an undeniable cipher
that leads to Holy Trinity
Church in Stratford, England.
Add to this the fact that
the Sonnets Dedication
is structured as 6 lines,
2 lines, and 4 lines.
Then discover that the T-H and
M-E ligatures on the monument
mimic the Freemason's
sacred triple tau symbol.
As we examine several elaborate
pieces of Dee's divine puzzle,
we are compelled to recognize
both a new Shakespeare
and Freemasonic secrets
that will change history
as we know it.
>> Whoever the real
Shakespeare was,
what went down behind the
curtain in the life of this
legendary icon
was more dramatic,
more dangerous than any of
his most controversial plays.
You're about to witness an
inconceivable true story,
a secret society espionage
thriller with a juicy
royal scandal thrown
in, all wrapped up
in a stunning coded
masterpiece that
finally solves a four centuries
old cover-up, the greatest
literary whodunnit of all time.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Holy Trinity Church
in Stratford-upon-Avon
is one of England's most
popular tourist attractions.
It's where we are told
William Shakespeare is buried,
just a few yards
away from the most
sacred relic in the church,
the Holy of Holies Altar Stone.
This 800-year-old marble
slab and Shakespeare's grave
and monument are guarded
by 24-hour CCTV cameras
and a forensic
system that sprays
any unauthorized
intruder with a chemical,
detectable on the body or
clothing for up to 12 months.
"Don't risk it.
100% conviction rate in
court," says the welcome sign.
Why such James
Bond-style security?
Nobody's going to
walk out with it.
It weighs over three tons.
What secrets does it hold?
There are lots of secrets
surrounding the Shakespeare
mystery.
For instance, in
school, we were taught
he's the most famous
poet, playwright
in the Western world, one of
the most prolific writers ever.
But here's something
we were never told.
The greatest writer
in history never
wrote a letter to
anyone, not so much
as a note has ever been found.
You probably heard he wrote
bestselling epic poems,
over 150 sonnets, dozens of the
most famous plays in the world,
including "Hamlet,"
"Midsummer Night's Dream,"
"Macbeth," "Romeo and Juliet."
But we were never told not a
single original manuscript has
ever been found, not a play,
a poem, a page, a line, a word
exists in his own hand,
just six shaky signatures,
all barely legible, all spelled
differently, Shaksper(e).
Handwriting experts can't
even agree they were all
written by the same person.
>> Your flashes of merriment
that were wont set the table
on a roar?
Not one now to mock
your own grinning?
>> Ten of his plays are
set in Italy and reveal
he's intimately familiar
with the locations, customs,
and idiomatic language.
>> As I am Egypt's queen,
thou blushes, Antony.
>> Thirteen more are
set throughout Europe,
the Middle East, and
African countries.
And yet the man from Stratford,
the man we've all been told
was the great author, that
man, Shaksper(e), never
set foot outside of England.
We're told he was this
great scholar, fluent
in multiple languages, with
unfailingly accurate knowledge
of astronomy, astrology,
medicine, botany,
Greek mythology, the Bible,
mathematics, music, seafaring,
military terms, aristocratic
pursuits such as hawking,
tennis, swordsmanship, jousting,
court customs, politics,
and above all, an encyclopedic
mastery of the law.
And yet his last
will and testament
reveals he didn't own a single
book, not even a family Bible.
And no record exists showing
he had even the barest minimum
of an education.
We were never told these things.
But you're about to discover
why all this was covered up.
"My crown is in my
heart, not on my head."
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I've been a pianist, composer,
singer, recording artist
virtually all my
life until 2004 when
I became obsessed with
the Shakespeare mystery
and stumbled onto some
Renaissance codes,
which, inexplicably, I found
I had a knack for deciphering.
Six years later, I had dived
so deep into this world
that I knew for certain
I had discovered
the most important
cryptographic key to solving
the whole Shakespeare puzzle.
And I had identified the
actual physical location
where Shakespeare had left
the truth of who he really was
and why there had
been a cover-up.
All I had to do was go get it,
the Holy Grail of literature,
except it's in one of
the busiest tourist
attractions and most protected
sites in England, Holy Trinity
Church in Stratford.
Plus, it happens to be the most
sacred relic in the church,
the Holy of Holies altar stone.
And all those warnings
at the entrance
are likely due to the
war that's been raging
for about 200 years
between the Stratfordians,
those are the ones who believe
only the man from Stratford
could possibly have
been the great author,
and groups who believe the
writer was someone else.
Most prominent in those
camps are the Oxfordians.
They believe the 17th Earl
of Oxford, Edward de Vere,
was responsible.
Needless to say, the
whole town of Stratford
is dependent on the
Orthodox stories.
The major part of
their livelihood
derives from the status quo.
So anyone breezing
into town claiming
they have an answer to a
question the townsfolk won't
even acknowledge exists is,
by default, pretty unwelcome.
Now, I went to the church and
to the bishop of the diocese.
I told him I know where a
priceless Shakespeare relic is
hidden that will bring the
church worldwide acclaim
and effectively end their
financial woes forever.
Come on.
Let's open up the altar.
It's in there.
[LAUGHS]
The immediate reaction was to
dismiss my theories out of hand
without even giving it a look.
Are you a cryptographer?
No.
But do you have a master's
degree in mathematics
or cybersecurity?
No, I'm actually
a pianist, but--
thank you so much for
coming, Mr. Green.
No one was going to
take my claims seriously
without the endorsement of
an actual cryptographer.
So I contacted the most
famous cryptographer
in the world, Whitfield
Diffie, to ask, would he
check my methods and
hopefully confirm
my conclusions were sound, maybe
even give me some pointers.
But his consultation
fee was $500 an hour.
And, well, I had
hundreds of pages
of research and
discoveries, most of which
were the kind that
you wouldn't normally
associate with your standard
conception of Shakespeare,
bizarre unexpected connections,
such as hidden references
to the Great Pyramid of Giza,
Rosicrucian and Freemasonic
symbolism in certain
plays on his gravestone,
on the monument,
behind the altar
in the Stratford church
and, most strange of all,
strong clues that the
real Shakespeare faked
his own death in
order to be free to do
the most important side gig
of his career, the King James
Bible.
I couldn't afford Diffie
to even look at the index
to my list of findings,
but I got lucky.
His wife, Mary, was an avid
Egyptologist, it turns out.
And he seemed intrigued by
the Freemasonic connection.
So I suspect that was
the combination that
led him to offer a rather
generous compromise.
He said he'd do a quick
analysis over dinner
if I picked up the tab.
Well, of course, he chose
the most expensive restaurant
in Silicon Valley.
And it was a six-hour
drive for me.
But, hey, I would get to pick
the brain of a living legend.
The rest, as they
say, is mystery.
You see, in 1976, Diffie and
two associates solved an age-old
problem assumed by the greatest
math minds of all time to be
unsolvable--
how to communicate
a password securely
across an insecure channel.
Their groundbreaking discovery
has impacted everything
from how the world's banking
systems operate to keeping
the nuclear codes safe.
And while they were
at it, they just
happened to make digital
online commerce possible.
It's called public key exchange.
Let's see how it works.
Long before Edward Snowden,
long before even Wikileaks,
the NSA tried to ban this
book because it revealed more
about codebreaking than
they themselves knew.
Its author, David Kahn,
said Diffie's accomplishment
was the most revolutionary
new concept in the field
since the Renaissance.
It's a great magic
trick performed entirely
with zeros and ones.
Let's say Alice wants to
send some information to Bob
in secret.
Their communication
is vulnerable
because Eve is always listening.
Now, his system actually mixes
very large prime numbers.
But he knew he'd never get
the suits to understand
he was making the world
safer if brain fog set in
as soon as he opened his mouth.
So instead of attempting
to explain this,
he simply showed
them this and said,
imagine two cans of paint, easy
to mix, impossible to unmix.
Eventually, Eve became the
name the agencies used to mean
any eavesdropper implying.
Anyway, here was Diffie's
solution to all that.
Alice and Bob agree on a public
key, yellow, knowing full well
that Eve will intercept it.
But then Alice creates her own
private key, let's say, red,
mixes it with the yellow
public key, and gets orange.
These are just large
prime numbers, remember.
Bob creates his own private
key, let's say, blue,
mixes it with yellow,
and gets green.
Yellow isn't needed anymore.
And now Alice and Bob
communicate these new keys
to each other,
knowing full well Eve
will steal these two,
but now the magic trick.
Alice mixes Bob's green with her
private red, producing brown.
Bob mixes Alice's orange
with his private blue,
producing brown.
These are absolutely
mathematically identical.
No need for orange
or green anymore.
Alice and Bob are golden.
They can communicate
securely in public.
And sure, Eve will
still grab it.
But without the red
and the blue keys,
she has no idea
how this was mixed.
Eve is shut out.
That's the miracle of
public key exchange.
And for about 45
years, this system
has been impossible
to crack, even
using all the brute
force computing
power available on the planet.
So we're having dinner--
me, the piano player, him, the
math legend who saved the world
and has friends in high places.
And I mean really high places,
like NSA, CIA-type high places.
So I seize the moment,
and I say, look,
what if Alice or,
let's say, Will
wants to send a message
not across distance to Bob,
but across time to us.
Eve, during the
Renaissance, would have been
the notorious Star Chamber.
If Will's got a secret so
dangerous his entire life's
paper trail has to vanish, he
obviously needs a really secure
key to communicate
forward to a time
when it'll be safe
for it to be known.
So a public key text appears
in 1609, the dedication page
to the Shakespeare's Sonnets.
And combined with
two inscriptions
soon to come on the poet's
monument and gravestone,
they form the equivalent
of the yellow key.
You're going to see these
in detail in episode two.
But for now, let me just
give you the broad strokes
I gave Diffie.
Star Chamber could intercept
these, and they certainly did.
We know, for instance that
the Sonnets were suppressed
as soon as they were published.
But, still, a
handful of them have
managed to reach us
400 years across time.
What Star Chamber
did not know is
that Shakespeare
had his own Diffie
guy working in the shadows
named Dr. John Dee.
And Dee had friends in high
places, too, very high places.
He was deeply into
the esoteric arts
and communed with angels
for over a decade.
But, we'll get into
that soon enough.
So Shakespeare had his own
red and blue private keys.
This was the red one,
400-year-old private text
marked with a
numbered grid system,
clearly telling
us how to arrange
the public text to be
superimposed exactly
over it letter for letter.
I'll show you in
the next episode
how Dee's system
produced the code needed
to accomplish this goal.
Suffice to say, though,
for now, it worked.
He successfully sent
a password securely
across an insecure
channel, resulting
in a message across time
that essentially says,
a record has been
preserved for posterity.
Look closely at the
consecrated altar stone
where I have hidden
inside what I
want you to know, public key
exchange, Renaissance-style.
Diffie sat there
for a long time,
unblinking like he'd seen
a ghost, Hamlet's perhaps.
I like to think he simply
recognized the system created
400 years ago, almost
identical to the one he
had created in 1976.
Finally, very slowly,
he said, if I were you,
I would radar scan that altar.
He then confided in me a few
words of advice concerning Eve
that I cannot repeat publicly.
But that sent shivers
down my spine.
He was warning me that
without scientific proof,
the truth of what
I'd found might never
be allowed to come out.
This could affect
the monarchy, right?
I nodded.
And he called for the check.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Fortunately, they knew me
at the Stratford church.
I'd made a number
of visits already
and made some fairly generous
contributions in exchange
for them letting me
film in areas normally
off limits to the
general public.
I told them I was
writing a musical.
And all along, I'd been laying
the groundwork for something
bigger, and I didn't
quite know what.
So I called them up
and asked, would they
like me to perform a
concert of some songs
from my Shakespeare musical
in the chancel by his grave?
And they said, well, we just
had a booking fall through.
So there's actually an
opening in a couple of weeks.
Could I make it?
I had about 10 days to prepare.
I assembled a
small team, someone
to operate a rented scanner
system, someone else
to secretly film it.
I had a huge banner printed
up advertising the musical.
Customs loved it at Heathrow.
But its real purpose,
of course, was
to hide what would be
happening at the altar.
Disabling the CCTV
cameras turned out
to be quite simple, actually.
At the very end of
the concert, I simply
asked for all the church
lights be turned off
so I could sing the final
song by candlelight.
It was so beautiful and so dark.
The forensic system, that
was shut off during the show
because I put the piano
right up against the grave.
They couldn't risk
staining their Steinway.
I hired a local film crew
to shoot the concert, which
distracted from my own secret
film crew behind the banner,
scanning and filming
in night vision.
The scan guy had
just four minutes
while the lights were off
in which to do the scan.
He laid a protective
covering down so
as not to harm the altar.
It had grid lines printed
on it to guide him
as his eyes adjusted to
the near total darkness.
Song finished.
The lights came up.
The banner came down, and
nobody was any the wiser.
We hadn't taken anything
except zeros and ones.
It was the perfect non-crime.
Well, we could have been
arrested, of course.
Back at the hotel, we nervously
checked the footage, well,
to be sure our guy had
remembered to switch it on.
He'd only had part of an
afternoon to practice with it.
We hit send.
And within a few seconds,
a 400-year-old secret
was on the hard drives of
two of the leading radar
labs in America.
Everyone was sworn
to secrecy, even him.
I left the church feeling
we had accomplished
what Shakespeare himself clearly
hoped somebody would eventually
do.
All that remained was to await
the result from the labs.
All consecrated
Catholic altar stones
have to have a saint's
cavity hewn into them.
It's a small hole that
holds relics of a saint.
A little blue area is what
you'd expect to see in the scan.
The two labs worked
independently of one another
using separate protocols
to assure accuracy.
And both reported
the same result.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
This perfect replica
built to scale
allows us to see exactly
what the scan found--
a cavity over 6 and 1/2
feet long, 8 inches deep,
up to 30 inches wide.
It's 250 times the size
it's supposed to be.
You don't cut a hole that big
into solid polystyrene, I mean,
marble unless you're going to
put something that big into it.
Sure enough, the scan
reveals differing densities,
indicating the presence
of various items
within this huge cavity--
the missing manuscripts,
new priceless masterpieces.
Who knows?
Would you like to know?
I can tell you one of the
most precious items that
will be found inside
the altar stone
when it's eventually opened up.
And that's the original Sonnets
written in the hand of the bard
himself.
Actually, precious
can't even begin
to describe such a treasure
considering you learned already
that Shakespeare left
absolutely zero paper trail.
Finding anything belonging
to the great poet
would be literally priceless.
I can predict with confidence
that the Sonnets are there
because the same codes that were
scientifically proven accurate
by the radar scan are
the very same codes that
predict he chose
the Holy of Holies
to be the secret resting place
of his most divine love poems.
In the next episode,
we'll examine in detail
how those codes came into
being and who exactly Dr. John
Dee was.
But I know you're
anxious to start.
So here's just a brief preview.
It all centers around
the name of God
given to Moses on Mount
Sinai, which is commonly
translated from the original
Hebrew as, "I am that I am."
This is the first clue
that starts us off
on this magnificent journey,
because it's something
Shakespeare writes in
one of his sonnets.
He says, "No, I am
that I am, and they
that level at my abuses
reckon up their own.
I may be straight though
they themselves be bevel.
By their rank thoughts, my
deeds must not be shown."
These words-- reckon,
straight, bevel, rank--
are all Freemasonic
terms, indicating
that those of high rank
within the secret societies
are declaring, his
deeds must not be shown.
He must, in other
words, be anonymous.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
It was extremely dangerous
for Shakespeare to say that,
and we'll get into
why soon enough.
But as you're about
to see for yourself,
the great poet author has
hidden so many secrets
inside the Sonnets.
It becomes clear that
this little book of poems
is the central Rosetta
Stone, if you will,
through which he reveals the
truth not only of his identity,
but the great spiritual
truth hiding deep
inside every single one of us.
So what is the Hebrew name
of God revealed in Exodus?
Ehyeh asher ehyeh--
I am that I am.
Sometimes reduced to just,
I am that, or Ehyeh asher.
So let's look at this
pen name the author chose
to conceal his true identity.
I am asher.
The name of God Will Speake.
And yes, that's how speak was
spelled in Shakespeare's day.
He's clearly indicating he's
a vehicle for divine truth.
There's hardly a Shakespearean
scholar who would argue with
that, whether Stratfordian,
Oxfordian, Baconian,
or any other "-ordian."
They all agree.
His work is divine.
Setting aside just
the "I am Will"
part, which, of course, is
the ultimate creative force
of all life, we find
that even just the name
Shakespeare itself has
its own hidden meaning.
Seek a sephar.
Well, a sephar is a
Hebrew word that means
a numbering system or book.
It comes from the root
word sephir or cipher.
We're all familiar, I'm
sure, with the Jewish tree
of life symbol, the sefirot.
So seek a sephar
literally means look
for a secret numbering
system in a cipher
codebook, through
which I am that,
the divine name, Will Speake.
Clearly, that
cipher codebook that
contains a secret
numbering system
is Shakespeare's Sonnets.
I very much look
forward to showing you
the beautiful
secrets it contains.
Whoever the real
Shakespeare was,
he, she, they pulled off the
greatest vanishing act ever.
We don't yet know why.
That's what we're going to find
out in the next six episodes.
But we do know where he
left the answer for it.
It's right here.
[MUSIC PLAYING]